Hi, everybody. Welcome to the Data Science Hangout. If you're joining for the first time,
I'm Rachel. It's great to meet you. If this is your first Hangout, this is an open space for
the whole data science community to connect and chat about data science leadership,
questions you're facing, and what's going on in the world of data science.
So we always want to create spaces where everybody can participate and we can hear from everyone.
There's three ways that you can ask questions. You can jump in live and raise your hand on Zoom,
seems to work well. You could put questions in the Zoom chat, and feel free to just put a little star
next to it if you want me to read it, or I could call on you to introduce yourself and add some
context there too. We also have a Slido link that Tyler will share in just a second here,
where you can ask questions anonymously too. She's ahead of me, I see it. I just like to
reiterate that we love to hear from everyone, no matter your level of experience or area of work
as well. But today, I'm so happy to be joined by my co-host for today, Tegan Bunsu Ashby.
Tegan is a senior software developer at the Brooklyn Nets and also co-founder of Women in
Sports Data. And Tegan, I'd love to start off by maybe having you introduce yourself and share a
bit about your work. Oh, well, we're so secretive, like there's the joke about how the Brooklyn
Nets are kind of like the Kremlin, but you know, second rate. But at a high level, my job is to
help win basketball games. And I do that by translating data into applications and insights
and recommendations for how everybody within the Brooklyn Nets makes basketball related decisions.
So in front office, so how we evaluate players for draft acquisition or trade to the coaching
staff of how do we best strategize how to defend the pick and roll.
Can I ask you what's something that you're really excited about in regards to data lately?
Like data in basketball or data in general?
Yeah, data science in general or data in basketball, whatever is most exciting to you.
I'm really excited about computer vision and in like broadcast technology. I don't know if that's
so I'm a software engineer and so really more data science adjacent. But yeah, something that we
really struggle with is getting rich enough data sets on college players or basically players who
aren't on an NBA court because one of the primary data sets that we use comes from cameras in every
NBA stadium that tracks the player location is tied with events, but we don't have that for
our draft and something that would be really, really useful would be able to have that
from television. But it's such a hard problem because the frames are jumpy. Sometimes like
CV confuses like players on the on the wrong team, things like that. But having that would
be immensely, immensely exciting.
Cool. As we're waiting for everyone to jump in with their questions too, I'd love to hear a
little bit more about women in sports data and how you started that too.
Sure. So women in sports data is kind of this groundswell event that a couple of my fellow
amazing women in sports data from Houston Astro, Sarah Gallas, and Diana Ma, who was a data
scientist at the Los Angeles Lakers, we just really felt that we needed a space where we could
kind of showcase our abilities and have a platform to talk in a real technical manner about
how data is applied to sport and just to have that opportunity. So I'm really fortunate that
the Brooklyn Nets, you know, I came to RGM with this idea of like, we really don't have a space
for this. This doesn't exist. It's kind of a unique environment to work with in data.
How would you feel if the Brooklyn Nets hosted it? And he was all about it and
just kind of started running from there.
That's great. I should probably like describe what the event is.
Yeah, no, I was just gonna ask you if we could share it in the chat for people who are interested
in joining. Yeah, I'm a little bit in playoff fog, I have to admit. For those that aren't aware,
I'm mourning my second loss in a row. And I'm a little, this is super off topic, but I'm a little
paranoid because I used to work for the Philadelphia 76ers. And the second year that I was
in the playoffs with the Sixers, we got swept by the Celtics. And so this is my second playoffs
with the Nets. And get a little antsy, but different team, different parameters. Anyway,
so the Women in Sports Data event is going to take place in Brooklyn in late summer. We're
going to announce our official date in 10 days. And it'll be this event with panels and talks
by women working in sports across the technical spectrum. So not only analysts and data scientists,
but software engineers like me who partner with our data team and turn those insights into
applications for our vested stakeholders. Because it's such a unique environment where
you have a small coaching staff, a small front office, you really want to get them to interact
with the data in a much more immediate way than you might in a traditional organization where you
have different layers to step through. And so concurrent to our one day event in Brooklyn,
we're going to be hosting a hackathon using what is looking like event level player location data
from soccer sponsor to be announced. And that will take place over about a six to eight week sprint
before over the summer. And we really wanted to have something that was supported with mentors for
women and non-binary people interested in working with sports data to get an idea of what is going
to be most impactful. And how do I look at this data? And even if I don't have sports domain
knowledge, I have these technical skills. So how do I apply that to what is genuinely very
interesting data at an abstract level? That's great. I just put the link in the chat too, if
anyone wants to check it out as well. And I know there's a lot of data scientists on the call as
well. So I think it would also be great for us to hear how you work together with data scientists
on your team as well. Productionizing models is a large part of my job. And I think
traditionally my favorite part of my job. But over the past couple of years, I've really been getting
into like the very front of the stack. So I've been doing a lot of data visualization. And so
what sometimes will happen is that a data scientist will build a visualization in Matplotlib
or ggplot and doesn't necessarily want to productionize it in a tiny dashboard. We need
it to be a little bit more robust. It needs to talk with a different database. So I take that
and I turn it into D3 code. And it lives on our Planets application. And it's just a lot
more accessible and intuitive for non data fluent users. I'm curious what that transition looks like
or that handoff from the different teams or how you work together.
So I think everyone is very surprised by how small our teams are. But we're six, we're six
people. And we have we're about 5050. We're three data scientists and three developers.
And really, I wish I could say that it was very formalized. But because we operate more on the
basketball calendar than a development calendar, like I have project manager friends who probably
scream at our process. But often it's kind of like, oh, like, so and so asked me to do this,
or this is our development plan. Do you have time in your schedule to turn it into something a bit
more robust? I realized that wasn't very nice of us to do this in the middle of playoffs for you.
But thank you for joining us. Maybe it'll turn turn the corner. Yes. Although I can't say that
I'm in Boston, but stuff I see asked a question in the chat if you want to jump in. Yeah, sure.
Hi, Teagan. Nice to meet you. Thanks for taking the time to speak with everybody. I'm a little
bit more on the software side as well. It's at least my kind of background. So I'm always curious
as to how every team kind of, you know, in this case, very literally team, but how every team,
what they use in terms of their software, and then kind of data infrastructure,
if you don't mind speaking to that, if you can.
So, like I said, we tend to be very secretive, even down to the stack, which I've always found
kind of strange. I had a mentor who told me a story about how someone from the Clippers had
called him and was interrogating, like, what's the stack? Like, what do you guys use? Like,
are you on Snowflake? What do you think? Whatever. And my mentor was like, yeah, I just like told him
like all of this. And the person was like, oh, this is like really great stuff. And it was just
like, you know, like typical stuff. Like, this is our data warehouse. This is like the framework
that we use. Like, this is our backend. I think I'll get in trouble if I disclose the net stack,
but usually in job ads for data engineers or software developers, I've noticed that teams
are tending to disclose that. So, sorry for a non-answer.
No, no, no. I respect that. I appreciate it. Highly competitive environment. I get it.
I know that was, Tegan, that also came up in building the community as well. And you mentioned
that like a lot of times, like you can't talk to other teams, but during COVID, that was also
really hard. And especially for women in sports data too. I was wondering if you could talk to
that a little bit. Yeah. So, when I started in sports, I was pretty much explicitly told,
like, don't talk to people on other teams. Like, don't disclose what you're working on.
Every single thing that you do is a competitive advantage. And on the technical side, like,
that's somewhat true because different teams have different investments and different capacities
for investments and how they're able to use data. So, for example, when I was with the Sixers,
I was also on a very large team, but there are teams in the NBA that might have maybe only one
or two people that are basically data unicorns, and I'm sure very, very tired. So, my experience
in sports has only been to specialize, but I didn't really know the landscape then. And as
I got further in my career, I noticed that one of the advantages that my male co-workers, both
in research and development as well as basketball operations, had was they knew people on other teams
and once COVID hit, you know, I kind of realized, oh, my God, like, I'm all alone. And I was very
fortunate in the Sixers that I worked with an amazing data scientist, Savannah Serrett. She's
now with Overtime Elite running their research. And I just kind of felt like I really wouldn't
want anyone to feel like an island, to feel like they were alone. And because women, especially
on sports teams, and with a data background, like, already tech is so male-dominated,
and then to intersect that with sport, it's hard, right? Like, you have such unique experiences. And
of course, like, you're not going to say, like, oh, we're preparing for your team like this,
or we're targeting, you know, this player. But you can talk about some of the more mundane
things that happen when working for a sports team, and also some of the more serious things
that happen. So about a year ago, I started a Slack community for women working in basketball,
specifically, to just kind of get to know each other. And it just blossomed into this amazing
community, so supportive. Like, we've been on Slack all today. But yeah, it was kind of that,
and that first seed, and then Diana, one of my co-organizers, and I got to talking of, like,
how can we grow this? Why didn't we have this before? How can we make sure that, you know,
the next woman that works for a team and doesn't have, like, not only another woman
in her department, but another woman in the entirety of basketball? And it was also something
that I really felt compelled to do when I joined the Nets. I'm the only woman in the front office
here, and I'm one of the only women in a front office in the entirety of the NBA. And to me,
like, that's literally insane, because data and software skills, like, that should be one of the
more equitable ways to enter into sports. And it's such a high visibility, high cultural impact
role. I mean, like, you look at my former boss, Daryl Morey, or Kweisi Odofomensa, who's the new
GM of the Minnesota Vikings, and they both have technical roles. And this is kind of a pathway
to build the resume and the experience of being in sports and getting to the very,
very top of leadership. And there's also kind of a dialogue on the coaching side of, like,
how come, when are we going to see the first female NBA head coach? And there's usually, like,
one or two names who are commonly cited of, like, who's that going to be? And yet, the number of
assistant coaches who are women has remained stagnant. And I think it's less than 10. Now,
it's not very high. It's impressive that so quickly, you've grown this community as well.
It's a small community. Well, the symposium, I've seen a lot of interest on it. But I see,
Zach, you had asked a question around some of the data competitions. Do you want to jump in?
Yeah. So, I'm more of an NFL fan. I know there's the big data, as I'm sure you've heard of,
which is the NFL's open source data community, where they give out, like, GPS data,
helps, like, give access to more people to show off their skills. Is there stuff in, like,
in the NBA? Because I'm presuming that's one of the big things in helping
show off more diversity and allow more people access to this information. Because, of course,
traditionally, it's just, like, whoever's in the teams have access to this data.
And, of course, that tends to be the same people, which isn't really diverse, and et cetera.
Right. And it's very expensive, too. I know, so our main data provider right now is a company
called Second Spectrum. And I know that there are some people in the media who have subscriptions,
but really, you need to have, it's minimum five to six figures just for access. So,
typically, that type of data is not open source. I'm not sure if older data sets from Second
Spectrum or the previous company, SportView, are available. And that's really just more from,
like, my privilege of having a different bank account responsible for paying for that API.
But the NBA used to hold a data competition pre-COVID, and I really hope they do it again.
But this is kind of the goal of the Women in Sports Data Hackathon, is to get different
providers to donate that tracking data, or at least event-level player location data.
And I'm being very coy about this because we haven't officially signed our contract for that.
But, yeah, like, these rich data sets that show, like, where are players, you know,
what events are associated with an action, and how do you build a model on top of that?
And also, critically, I think, for the NFL Big Data Pool is that there's a very large prize
associated with it. So, it's very motivating to dig in. It's freely available on Kaggle.
But you also, you know, like, okay, like, I'm doing this work. It's definitely going to be
valuable either for a team or a league. How do I make sure I'm not exploited for it?
Thank you.
Thank you. Be very interesting to see.
I see, Mike, you asked a question as well around managing requests. Would you want to jump in?
Yeah, apologies, Teagan. This is something you kind of ended a sentence with about 10 minutes
ago, but I think the diversity question is possibly, you know, a better one. But it was
something you said about prioritizing work and prioritizing requests for your time.
And this is something that I'm wrestling with at the minute. You know, people come to your door
and knock and say, hey, can you do this for me? And you've got to kind of weigh up, well, look,
how long is that going to take? Is this something that's, you know, an afternoon or a week or
longer? And can you talk any about the difference between, okay, this is just a quick amount of
time. So I can get this done in an hour or in an afternoon, and then we're done. Versus things that
are, like, strategic, where you might think this may not be a high priority, but if I get an answer
to this, it will unlock a bunch of other stuff. So, you know, how do you, you know, how do you
So how do you, what are the, what's the identifiers for, you know, quick versus strategic?
It's so tricky, because I feel like working in sports, we have multiple full-time jobs, right?
So my full-time role is being a software engineer. And then I have another full-time role of
being a front office person. So, you know, I have to understand my domain of, you know,
having an opinion on basketball and the league and upcoming games.
So I don't think that this is a solved problem by any means with my team or around the league.
But I've been talking to a lot of, like, project managers, like, how, exactly, like, how do I solve
this question? Because we don't have enough room to, you know, appoint, you know, like a scrum master
or, like, a guard dog, essentially, to say, like, no, like, I protect my engineers' time, like, let
them do their thing. And something that's kind of wild right now. So this is not actually my office.
My office is in something we call very cutely the war room. I think it's, like, very common
in sports to call it the war room. And I have strong opinions on this. But because it's kind of
the node of where our organization lives, it's great because, you know, people, there's not a
wall between R&D and the rest of basketball operations. But then, like, you'll have 20 guys
gathered around and, like, watching film or, like, talking to the scouts. And so it's, like,
how do you sit down and say, like, I have, like, this really difficult problem that, like, I have
to, like, enter the matrix to solve. And if there's various, like, fires around me, then it's not going
to get solved until it's too late. So I've been trying to kind of put on, like, what's my project
manager hat. Like, we do, you know, stand-ups on a weekly level and, you know, coordinate all of our
processes through GitHub. But as far as, like, determining at a high level what's an emergency
versus, like, what's our long-term research prerogative. And then something also that's
very important to me is making sure that everybody on our team has room to learn and
that that time is protected. You know, that concept of 20% time where, like, I can't really
explain or sell to, say, like, my GM. Like, we're going to invest a lot of time on,
you know, working on computer vision. It may or may not work. And you're not going to see,
like, a direct outcome of that project. But if it does, then it's going to be extremely valuable
and it's going to be a significant advantage. But, like, I can't promise that. So I try to protect,
like, that 20% time of just, like, this is just, like, learning. This is just personal development.
This is experimental. And, like, yes, it will, you know, projects that we come up with and
experiments that we do are kind of geared towards understanding the game of basketball better and
to gain a competitive edge but are a little bit more closely aligned with, you know, that technical
maintenance. So that's about, like, one day a week. And it's a little bit more flexible
during our off-season push draft in the summer before training camp. And then we kind of have
to balance, like, most of my team has been in basketball for many years. So we can kind of
anticipate, like, what the cadence of the season, like, what are the kind of questions can we either,
like, anticipate and build out, like, what is, like, okay, like, we didn't crash the glass
well enough. Like, we know, like, what the question is going to be the next day. And so,
like, we have resources of here's the study that we did a year ago on this question. Here we've
applied new data to it now. This is what we might recommend or this is what we would look into.
And then, like, the one-off requests, we try to be pretty, like, on top of that depending
on who's asking. And I think, like, that comes more from organizational structure and having
strong leadership from the top and, like, a lot of buy-in, which I feel very, very fortunate to have.
But also approachability is really important. So I would, like, I wouldn't want
our department to feel inaccessible or anybody in our department to feel inaccessible even to
like the new grad basketball operations assistant. Frequently we've gotten questions of,
like, oh, I'm really interested in what you're doing. I can even be, like, super
beginner. Like, how do I, like, I have this question with X domain. Like, how would I
start to learn R? Or, like, can you show me how to query the database? Like, what does that look
like? And so we try to, like, build tools to empower different levels of users, both from
their role but also their comfort with technology and to make sure that there's not this hard line
between R&D and basketball. And then there's something the former director of R&D for the
Milwaukee Bucks recently told me. He's like, I don't have a tech job. I have a basketball job.
And I thought, oh, I've never really thought. I've thought it more like I have a tech job in a
basketball team. And I think that's really more, like, a difference of philosophy of, like, how do
you protect that and also how do you make sure that it's a goal, right? Like, the goal in basketball
is the same as any other business, which is to succeed. Like, it's just a little bit more literal
for us, like, to win. I really like that idea of protecting 20% of your team's time.
And I know that can be so hard sometimes, too. So how do you actually go about doing that in practice?
Personally, I try to make sure that I have, like, literally, like, 20% of my time during the week
logged on some other, like, research or development initiative that I'm interested in.
It's very difficult to do during the season because we play games on weekends. We play games
late at night. And it's almost, it feels a little unreasonable to say this is a 9-5 job, but also
you need to show up at the arena at 6.30 or go straight from the practice facility to the arena
and show up the next morning. So we're pretty relaxed on, like, you're responsible for managing
how you want to see your time. And, like, there are only, like,
true, like, real emergencies, and they're not going to come from our department.
Thank you. I see there's a few anonymous questions coming in, too. And one was,
how do you see sports analytics evolve over the long term? Is it more proprietary
advanced algorithms or more proprietary data or something else?
Hmm. So there's this book called The MVP Machine, and it's about player development
in baseball. And I think that the biggest advances in sports analytics are going to be
moving in that direction. And, like, how do you empower your, quote, unquote, end users,
end users, your players or even your front office to grow using database insights?
I think that in basketball, because we are relatively small compared to a data team for,
say, baseball, which will have, you know, departments in the dozens, like a true startup,
that we will probably remain more of, like, the interlocutors and some teams who are interested in,
like, building out more models or taking on new experimental technical projects. I think that'll
be more of a team prerogative rather than a trend. And, like, that advantage is going to be the same
advantage that any team has in filling personnel, right? Like, it's how much money do you have to
spend? But I do think that vendors and, like, the ability to not necessarily deliver modeling and
insights to a team, but doing a lot of the processing power that would be expensive for us
and taking care of the sort of things that maybe a general manager doesn't, like, can't see the
immediate impact. So, like, my example of, like, I would love for my 20% time project to be working
on computer vision projects, but is that if there were a vendor that could provide that,
that might be a more efficient use of both our time and resources.
Thank you. I see there were quite a few other questions in the chat, too, and
Bala, you had a question around data privacy. Would you want to jump in?
Yeah. So, I just want to understand how you keep tab on various data regulations,
especially I'm sure US has, each state has their own regulation. So,
how do you manage the metadata? How do you share models or,
because it's data is key for everything.
Data is key for everything.
Right. I mean, that's all proprietary and in-house. I'm not sure how you mean.
So, the data basically would be associated with a player or a team. So, team might be
all right because it's a rolled up heuristic data, which is fine.
Right.
But if it is with the player, then you might need to,
in Europe, we have GDPR. So, we have to be compliant and there are different data
policies that we need to go through to use that data. I'm not aware how it is done in US. So,
that's where my curiosity came.
Sure. So, the NBA Players Association has very strict regulations for
how and what kind of data we can collect. So,
the inferences that we make from the data sets that we subscribe to or collect ourselves like
that, that is, that's totally fine. But for instance, like you can't put a tracking chip
in a ball. You can't have a player wear wearables in-game. They have to give
consent to do that and then only within a particular context.
And so, because we're really only dealing with 20-some, including RG League players,
a pretty limited set of players.
But have you thought through when it comes to scale, maybe five or 10 years down the line?
Again, this question might be of relevance, right? Because right now you're talking about
a very small data set, which could be easily managed. But if you're thinking about like
five years down the line, getting all the players' data and systemically capturing it rather than
someone manually entering it, all these things would come into play, right? Or
your team has not thought through that state?
Well, I think that we're talking about a couple of different sources for data.
And yeah, like I'm struggling with this because I'm definitely in my team brain right now.
So, it's really like not a question of going to scale because, you know,
we work at the service of these players, of these teams, and like we wouldn't be able to
productionize or build a product that, you know, went public.
I see in terms of this data and the kinds of data that you use,
Frank just had a question in the chat as well. Frank, do you want to jump in?
I see Tatsu has love for this as well.
Yeah, so it's directly related here. All the on-court stuff makes a ton of sense to me. Like,
that's pretty clear. I'm always super interested in the player behaviors, or like really anyone's
consumer behaviors, player behaviors. And so, I'm always super interested in the player behaviors
really anyone's consumer behaviors, player behaviors. And as we get more data there,
right, like I actually don't have my whoop on today, but right, like if I'm wearing my whoop,
I can help to a certain extent, right? There's some inaccuracies in the data and their models
as well, but like I can start to make better decisions about, right, should I go easier on
my run today? Should I go harder? And I'm wondering, like, do you and your team support
some of that stuff? And then it makes me wonder, like, how, it's cool, but then, like, how real
time can you get with that, right? Like, can you make different decisions right before the game
starts to say, like, hey, this player, right, like look at their data. They're telling me they're
fine, but if I'm the coach, like I want to make a different decision about play time start lineup.
I don't know how those decisions get made. Yeah. We have, like, a very robust and excellent
player performance staff that does address, like, more of the, like, physiological and athletic
questions, like that data. But, you know, I was saying, like, a lot of this requires player
consent and, like, player willingness to opt in because you can't just say, like, well, like,
take the example of sleep. Like, sleep is such a huge concern in the NBA because we play 82 regular
season games. And so the travel distance, like if you're playing games every other night or back to
back and you're flying from New York to San Francisco to San Antonio, that is such a huge
strain on your ability to perform at an elite level. How do you monitor, like, okay, like,
maybe you're not going to, maybe you need to rest or maybe, like, you shouldn't play
at, you know, at an extremely hard level during practice, things like that.
And I think that to previous question's point of, like, what's the next direction in sports
analytics? It is this kind of, like, behavioral question of, like, one, how do you get players
to opt in? Personally, I think that it has to be, like, it can't be surveillance analytics.
It has to be, what do I, like, what am I going to get out of this? And what do I want the team
to know? And it becomes kind of tricky because, like, you want to optimize as a player,
how am I going to perform, right? But you also need to be very careful of exposing,
like, certain data to your team because it can affect where, you know, how much
your next contract might be or if they know something about, you know, an injury I have,
are they going to try and trade me? Like, how much leverage do I have?
Got it. Yeah, the, and those trade-offs make sense.
I like that idea of framing it, though, as what am I going to get out of it? Like,
thinking of how we can all use that, even not with, like, players, but business stakeholders as well.
I see there are a lot of other questions earlier. Mark, you had a question about,
like, when you need to hire another full-time person. Do you want to jump in and add some context
there? Sorry, I was on mute. Yeah, I know you mentioned you have, like, a super or pretty
small team, and this is tangentially related to Mike's question about balancing priorities.
I guess, when do you, like, what's the cutoff between we have, you know,
like, what's the cutoff between we have all these different priorities, and some of them we can push
back, and some of them, you know, we'll just communicate that these are lesser versus,
hey, we need to accomplish all of this stuff, and we need to either expand the team or,
you know, offload something to a different team.
We always need at least one extra person, I think, both on the engineering side and on the data side.
But a model, I think, that is maybe more successful for us is we almost have
technical translators embedded in certain departments within basketball. So, we have a
director of coaching analytics who's the main liaison with the coaching staff, and he sits on
the bench at every game and provides in-game analysis, but he also does, you know, modeling
specifically related to gameplay. And I think a reasonable question is, like, should that be one
role? Should it be, you know, distinct roles? How do you kind of merge a team if it were distinct?
And then, like, what about departments that don't have that embedded technical person? So, like,
our cap and strategy group is two people, but when I was in Philadelphia, cap and strategy was
technically part of my department. We were officially, when I started, before we
we converted to research and development, we were strategy and analytics. And so,
yeah, it's always tough because we're very lean, and it's almost like there are too many hats for
for one head, but at the end of the day, like, you're essentially a consulting group
embedded with a team, and you have to respond to that more so than, you know, technical prerogatives
that you might have as a team and kind of negotiate, like, I think that the payoff, if we
invest in this research direction or if we build out this tool, then we'll save both our
time as well as our stakeholders' time. So, not a satisfying answer, I think.
Yeah, I don't think that it's solved anywhere, and it's maybe not solved even by more people.
My group in Philadelphia, we used to claim that we were 10, but that also included
outside consultants who worked in academia and at Google Brain.
And, you know, the work that our consultants did certainly dovetailed with the work that
we did, but it wasn't, they're kind of insulated from the demands that those of us who are
directly embedded with the team and have front office roles or coaching roles would have to support.
So, I don't know if maybe that's a better model or, you know, maybe rather than directly, you
know, contracting with consultants, you sign an exclusive contract with some kind of vendor or
even outsourced development. I'm not sure. I think everybody, it's more budget-constrained
than optimized. Yeah, someone from the chat vibes, and I definitely agree with that.
I see there is also an anonymous question earlier around how much variation is there
in the levels of data sophistication between different teams?
Hmm, I don't want to get in trouble.
Or I guess it could be across different sports too.
Yeah, I think you can kind of tell based on public titles, which is maybe a funny thing
for me to say because the Nets are one of the few teams that don't have a public directory of
their analytics staff. But I know that my friend Sarah Gallas, who's director of R&D for Houston
Astros, does have a fairly large team that is amazingly, like fairly equitable. So, go Sarah.
But yeah, like she employs like, for instance, an ML engineer. And, you know, if we had like
one person to be like explicitly an ML engineer, that would be incredible.
I've always wanted, as I've mentioned a couple times on this chat, I really, really,
really love a project manager, somebody who's like explicitly is to keep us all in line and to
serve kind of as that guard dog of time. But I'd also kind of love a designer, like to like really
go like full, full stack. Cool, thank you.
On that topic, kind of like of the variation between different teams,
I see Chris, you asked a question around reaching out to other sports organizations.
If you're on, do you want to jump in? Or Chris maybe had to jump at that half hour mark. But
the question was, are you still able to reach out to other professional sport organizations
to share data concepts like U.S. Olympic teams or UFC, for example?
Yeah, we've definitely done some both data conversations of like, how would you approach
this problem in football? How would you approach this problem in soccer? And, you know, there are
certain analogies in sport that do carry over. I think it depends on the comfort. It's really
not R&D's call of how much you can share. And it's probably going to be more the prerogative
of an owner or a general manager. So fortunately, here at Brooklyn, we've been pretty into
having conversations with other pro teams outside of basketball to kind of do a temperature check on
like, what are your processes like at a fairly high level, but also like,
even down to like the nitty gritty of data management. And how do you manage this with
six people? How do you manage this with 12 people on your team? What would you do if you had like
that extra engineer? But yeah, we definitely don't talk to basketball teams, but
there are certain analogs, I think, in the types of actions that happen in basketball, or even
like the structure of the leagues that are certainly parsable to, you know, like
FIFA or hockey. And another advantage would be like, if your ownership group
has a multi-sport portfolio. So if your ownership group owns like a hockey team or soccer team,
then you're probably going to be doing some data sharing there. When I was on the Sixers,
our ownership group owned the New Jersey Devils. And so in my contract, it literally said I could
be seconded to the New Jersey Devils. In spite of not knowing anything about hockey, that high level,
like how do you build out an application that's intelligible, is interactive, is
easily digestible by somebody who is sport fluent, but not necessarily data fluent. And,
you know, like there are certain touch points within competitive sport, like the prerogative
across sport is how do you win? And there are decision points like a game or a draft or free
agency. Like that seems to be almost like fairly universal of how do you prepare for those
instances? And like, what are the best strategies? It's interesting walking this fine line of like,
what is secretive or what can be shared? And I know that's with every industry too,
like with pharmaceutical industries. I know they do a lot of open sharing and a lot of
presentations and conferences with each other. But I'm sure there's a ton of stuff that they
don't want to share with each other too. I know, Steve, you just asked a question
in the chat if you want to jump in.
Hello. Yeah. So interesting chat. I'm trying to get obviously a little bit more details,
which is how do you, how are you supported as software engineers? Is this something do you
self-support yourself? Do you have some sysadmins or are you using third parties
to actually do your administration? How do you look after yourselves?
Oh, great question. Are we doing a good job on that? I don't know. It's playoff season.
We're very fortunate that we do have someone on our team who does take ownership of that role.
For other teams, every option that you've listed, it certainly could be
the direction that they choose. So it really kind of depends on do you have enough resources
to support somebody who would be internal, or do you have enough time resources to self-support,
or do you have enough financial resources where you could outsource it and you can
allow your team to focus more on the development and data pipelining and
the immediate requests that your team stakeholders may have.
So what proportion would you say of your, if you're assuming your group which is doing,
it sounds like you're doing self-support, what percentage of time do you find is
doing the data analysis and what type of time is spent building servers or configuring servers for you to use?
It's pretty role-specific. So like I said, we're very fortunate to have one person on our team who
spends the majority of their time in that role. But because we're so small,
we have to be empowered to handle it on our own.
Okay, thank you. Thank you. And there was an anonymous question as well, and I'm going to guess what one of the acronyms is, but
how competitive is it to get front office, get into front office data science or software
engineering roles for a sports team? Very, people say that it's very competitive, but I think that
it ends up being very lucky. And as I was talking about earlier, it's supposed to be
one of the more equitable ways to get into a front office or to work for a team because you're
supposed to be evaluated on your skill set and not whether you've played professionally before.
I certainly haven't played in the NBA before. I've never played basketball even at a
highly competitive level. I think that there are kind of like some secret tricks that people
on the inside know. And everyone usually says that you have to build a portfolio with basketball
related projects. You should have
kind of an intuitive sense of like what might be useful for communicating data to a coach or
or to a front office within a specific domain like salary cap or scouting.
But I personally didn't have a basketball portfolio. I didn't even really think,
oh, like I have to work in basketball. So I think that my experience is probably
different and maybe unique. It's very difficult to get a role for a front office because they
just don't come up that often. And when people are hiring, I think it's kind of like the greater
trend in the data science and software engineering industries now where everyone would love a senior
developer or a senior data scientist, but nobody wants to hire an entry level
person. And then how do you get an entry level job if that job's not advertised? Then it's
what's your network? And it's a lot easier to build your network if you're already associated
with basketball or you have a lot of time to work on projects in a visible way for free.
And I think that that kind of shadow requirement is specifically disadvantaging women and people
of color because we have different responsibilities. We have different demands on our time.
And oftentimes we haven't been told that that's one of the blueprints to get a job in sports.
And I just think that we as an industry need to be doing a better job of making sure that
like that requirement, if it has to be a requirement, that we provide kind of a
development pathway that's rewarded either through a hackathon. The NBA used to have one
or through women in sports data, which will have cash prizes, but to specifically target and develop
those communities to mentor them and tell them specifically, this is what we want in basketball.
This is what we want in football. But I don't know because teams are not going to grow
in any significant sense. If you have an R and D department that's larger than the rest
of basketball operations, then the people who keep the books are going to be like, well,
why don't we just hire an outside organization to do this that sells the same information
or does the same thing? They're not going to understand the business case for a large department.
So I don't think that positions, it's not going to be a growth industry, but you can use those
same skill sets to get a job for a second spectrum or for a Hawkeye or
even in like traditional big tech that would love to provide services for sports.
So for instance, Zach, he brought up Big Data Bowl, like that's sponsored by AWS, $100,000.
And they are the named data provider. And so I think there's always going to be
that pathway that will make people attracted to sports, but it's not really
kind of a direct blueprint for doing it.
Thank you. I see there were a lot of questions we unfortunately didn't get to within the hour.
So if people are on and want to jump in and ask their question, feel free to just raise your hand
right now, too, if there's anything that I missed. Trevor, I see you had asked one
around measuring when you're making a difference. Do you want to jump in?
Yeah. Hi, everyone. So that's always my constant question, right? So clearly,
when you're doing a project, you're always asking yourself, am I making a difference
or am I going to measure success, right? I mean, it's evident that more organizations,
even here in Jamaica, actually getting more data science departments, hiring more analysts,
it makes sense, right? But how do we justify our existence qualitatively and quantitatively?
So in a sport like basketball that I like as well, is how do you know that you're making a
difference in terms of the bottom line at the end of the day, if you understand what I'm asking?
Totally. I think that it's one of the joys and terrors of being in a data-intensive role for a
team is that you can't point to, oh, we did X or we recommended Y, and now we have an NBA
championship. But it really has to be, does analytics, does data and investment in data
at a league level indicate that you're going to have sustained success?
And I think that the investment in analytics departments and the success of the teams that
have been able to do so is kind of indicative of how teams are evaluating the values that data
provide. But I do think that that's really nice to say, but we also need to hold ourselves
accountable of like, we're using all this time and resources. Does it contribute to winning?
Does it help us make better decisions? And I think that it's almost a qualitative assessment of
at certain pressure points, did we create an environment where it was easier to negotiate a
trade or pull the trigger on drafting a certain player over another? Or even to the level of
preparing for what happens on court, did we create an environment of, all right, we knew
these tendencies, we could project this expected value. Were we able to support that in a way that
it was actionable and retainable and implemented either at a player level or coaching level?
Thank you. I understand. It's not an easy answer.
Yeah. Thank you, Tegan. I know we're taking you out of your work during playoffs. Do you have
time for one more question? Sure. Okay, awesome. Well, thank you so much for all that you do to
open the doors to others to get into the sports analytics space as well. And I'm sure that you
do. So just wanted to ask you, if you have any tips for us who maybe want to do something similar
in our own industries? I wouldn't say that I'm a very active or fluent Twitter user, but I got some
advice from my friend, Kathy Evans, who is vice president of research and development for the
Washington Wizards. And also my friend, Brittany Donaldson, who is the director of research and
my friend, Brittany Donaldson, who's former assistant coach for the Toronto Raptors and
data analysts. And both of them are much, much better at social media than I am.
But they told me, you know, like, you're one of the only women in a technical role in the NBA,
and 50% of NBA teams are hiring for software developers. And like, nobody knows what that
looks like, or that you can even do that as a job. And so I thought, oh, well, it just like,
through being visible, like, that might help. Then I obviously would love to do that. And then
it just kind of made everything else as far as the community building so much easier, because I could
see a response, and I met so many people, and it was easier to develop a connection, because I
could reach out to somebody, or they could reach out to me, and we could have something to talk
about, whether it's like a thread that they wrote, or an invitation to a community. So yeah, at a
practical level, just being visible and making friends.
Awesome. Well, thank you so much for jumping on and sharing your experience with us.
Really appreciate it. And thank you all for all the great questions too. If there are some that
I'll miss, that I missed, I'll send them over to you, Tegan, if that's okay, through email.
Of course. Yeah, thank you for having me. And yeah, if you have any questions, I'll do my best
to answer them. You can always say hi on Twitter. I will never give you an opinion on a player,
because I cannot afford the tampering fine, but I'll do my best.
Awesome. I'll share your Twitter account right here in the chat too, if people want to go in
and follow. Thank you so much. Have a great rest of the day, everybody.
Bye.